German foreign minister analena babok
has wrapped up a visit to Israel aimed
at diffusing tensions with Iran babok
met with prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu to discuss the consequences of
the unprecedented aerial attack launched
by Iran over the weekend earlier in the
day she met with Israeli president Isaac
herzo in Jerusalem like many of Israel's
allies the German foreign minister has
been urging deescalation in the conflict
in a press conference at televis Boran
airport babok warned Iran attack on
Israel shows Tran is not afraid of
escalating the regional
conflict I am reiterating here today my
total condemnation of this dangerous act
and have told my Israeli Partners very
clearly Israel has our complete
solidarity Iran will face
consequences we in the EU are placing
sanctions against Iran and will continue
to work on
these at the same time it is critical
that this highly flammable situation
does not turn into a regional
Wildfire Iran and its proxies like
Hezbollah or the houthis must not pour
any more oil onto the
fire our correspondent T Kramer was at
the German foreign Minister's press
conference and has more details on bok's
talks with Israel's
leaders well I mean basically she's been
telling uh the Israelis that how
concerned uh many many countries are
among them Germany we also had the UK
foreign minister D Cameron here uh at
the same time and she was telling them
that uh Israel should uh basically
consider to calibrate its response
should be smart about it as she put it
and also saying that Israel shouldn't uh
give in either so there's an
acknowledgement here um I think from uh
the German A Min foreign minister saying
you know everybody knows how dangerous
the situation is this region is the
brink of uh on a brink of a wider
escalation uh but she didn't go really
much into detail how such a calibrated
response uh would basically uh look like
and she also uh said you know they are
now on their way uh to the G7 meeting
now leaving uh from Israel directly to
there where they will be discussing uh
the situation here but it's very clear
the concern Le uh what can happen and
all the different scenarios that are
being discussed because Israel has said
uh uh this retaliatory response from
Iran from its soil to Israeli soil would
also varant a direct response from
Israel and of course everybody's here
now waiting what that means there is a
decision uh to uh for a response but not
about the timing and the scale of it and
to what extent can Germany play a role
in efforts to deescalate the conflict
between Israel is and Iran at this
point well I mean they're showing their
concern they're trying to talk obviously
here uh to all their counterparts we
also heard um the foreign minister
saying that she had talked uh before uh
the uh uh reprisal attack on Saturday by
Iran and Israel um uh to her Iranian
counterpart but also afterwards and she
said uh that basically Iran would test
the waters they would uh see if there
could be an escalation and she also said
that the g at the G7 meeting uh they
would be talking about a potential
further sanctions they could place uh on
Iran but you know there's a lot of talk
about uh you know trying uh to get
Israel not to respond or in a in a
different way to respond but it's not
quite clear how this will be done
without pushing this region and that
would not just concern uh of course
Israel it would concern the whole region
into a
escalation that was our correspondent
Tanya Kramer always great to get your
perspective of things thank you so much